---
sidebar_position: 3
id: useful-links
title: Useful Links
---


# Useful links

This is a collections of best links we came across so far during the development of this project. They cover various topics somehow related to what we are trying to achieve.

## Architecture

- POSIX compliant write order test on GPFS
https://svn.hdfgroup.org/hdf5/branches/hdf5_1_10_0/test/POSIX_Order_Write_Test_Report.pdf
- Best Practice Guide - Parallel I/O
https://prace-ri.eu/wp-content/uploads/Best-Practice-Guide_Parallel-IO.pdf
- MPI-IO/GPFS, an Optimized Implementation of MPI-IO on top of GPFS
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=1592834
- 10GE network tests with UDP - European XFEL
https://indico.cern.ch/event/212228/contributions/1507212/attachments/333941/466017/10GE_network_tests_with_UDP.pdf
- How to choose between Kafka and RabbitMQ 
https://tarunbatra.com/blog/comparison/How-to-choose-between-Kafka-and-RabbitMQ/


## Software

- Intro to lock free programming
https://preshing.com/20120612/an-introduction-to-lock-free-programming/
- JSON library benchmarks
https://github.com/miloyip/nativejson-benchmark
- Kernel bypass
https://blog.cloudflare.com/kernel-bypass/
- PACKET_MMAP
https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/networking/packet_mmap.txt
- Hyperslab selection 
https://support.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/Tutor/phypecont.html
https://support.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/Tutor/selectsimple.html
- Caching and Buffering in HDF5
https://de.slideshare.net/HDFEOS/caching-and-buffering-in-hdf5
- Chunking in HDF5
https://portal.hdfgroup.org/display/HDF5/Chunking+in+HDF5
- Setting Raw Data Chunk Cache Parameters in HDF5
https://support.hdfgroup.org/pubs/rfcs/RFC_chunk_cache_functions.pdf
- Memory model synchronization modes
https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/Atomic/GCCMM/AtomicSync
- Is Parallel Programming Hard, And, If So, What Can You Do About It?
https://mirrors.edge.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/people/paulmck/perfbook/perfbook.2018.12.08a.pdf
- Linux kernel profiling with perf
https://perf.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Tutorial
- Introduction to parallel HDF5
https://portal.hdfgroup.org/display/HDF5/Introduction+to+Parallel+HDF5
- Introduction to Scientific I/O
https://www.nersc.gov/users/training/online-tutorials/introduction-to-scientific-i-o/?show_all=1
- Lecture 36: MPI, Hybrid Programming, and Shared Memory
http://wgropp.cs.illinois.edu/courses/cs598-s15/lectures/lecture36.pdf
- Ansi escape codes
https://www.lihaoyi.com/post/BuildyourownCommandLinewithANSIescapecodes.html


## Linux configuration
- CFS: Completely fair process scheduling in Linux
https://opensource.com/article/19/2/fair-scheduling-linux
- perf sched for Linux CPU scheduler analysis
http://www.brendangregg.com/blog/2017-03-16/perf-sched.html
- Tuning CPU scheduler for reducing latency
https://www.scylladb.com/2016/06/10/read-latency-and-scylla-jmx-process/
- RHEL7: How to get started with CGroups.
https://www.certdepot.net/rhel7-get-started-cgroups/
- Cpusets
https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/cgroup-v1/cpusets.txt
- Understanding mlx5 ethtool Counters
https://community.mellanox.com/s/article/understanding-mlx5-ethtool-counters
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux Network Performance Tuning Guide
https://access.redhat.com/sites/default/files/attachments/20150325_network_performance_tuning.pdf
- Low latency 10Gbps Ethernet
https://blog.cloudflare.com/how-to-achieve-low-latency/
- Monitoring and Tuning the Linux Networking Stack: Receiving Data
https://blog.packagecloud.io/eng/2016/06/22/monitoring-tuning-linux-networking-stack-receiving-data/#procnetsoftnet_stat
- Making linux do hard real-time
https://www.slideshare.net/jserv/realtime-linux
- Linux timing and scheduling granularity
https://fritshoogland.wordpress.com/2018/03/13/linux-timing-and-scheduling-granularity/
- Raw Ethernet Programming: Basic Introduction - Code Example
https://community.mellanox.com/s/article/raw-ethernet-programming--basic-introduction---code-example
- Performance Tuning for Mellanox Adapters
https://community.mellanox.com/s/article/performance-tuning-for-mellanox-adapters
- UEFI Workload-based Performance and TuningGuide for HPE ProLiant Gen10 
https://support.hpe.com/hpesc/public/docDisplay?docId=a00016408en_us
- Low Latency Performance Tuning for Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7
https://access.redhat.com/sites/default/files/attachments/201501-perf-brief-low-latency-tuning-rhel7-v2.1.pdf
- Understanding PCIe performance for end hostnetworking
https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/research/srg/netos/projects/pcie-bench/neugebauer2018understanding.pdf
